---
cover: /dark-elves.webp
description: "Dark elves are as beautiful as elves, the only difference being that they have dark skin and malevolent eyes. They usually dwell in deserts and wield dark and blood magic, favoring daggers as weapons to strike with precision and deadly intent."
date: 2024-10-22T00:00:00.000Z
layout: article
---

## ::hero

## image: /dark-elves.webp

# Dark Elves

Dark Elves, known as Druchii in their own tongue and sometimes referred to as Naggarothi or the Dark Ones, are one of the most ancient, powerful, and sadistic counterparts of the Elves. They were created by a god who coveted the beauty of the Elves but whose corrupting power left them tainted with pieces of his soul. This corruption placed them at odds with their benevolent Elven counterparts, leaving the Dark Elves in hatred and rivalry. Among all Elven tribes, they are considered the most deadly and are often regarded as "reapers of the night" due to their work as assassins and contract mercenaries.

## Physical Appearance

Dark Elves have distinct physical traits that set them apart from other Elven races:

- Skin and Hair: Unlike the Drow, who have ebony skin, Dark Elves have dark brown skin and typically pale hair. It is believed that some of them may have black hair instead of the more common white.
- Eyes: They are known for their malevolent eyes, which reflect their sinister nature and their belief that it is their birthright to rule the world.
  Dark Elves do not possess darkvision, unlike their Drow cousins, but their other physical attributes, including their agility and combat skills, make them formidable foes.

## Beliefs and Mentality

The Dark Elves view the world through a lens of malevolence, believing that it is their destiny to rule all that they survey. They see other races as inferior beings, existing only to grovel at their feet. Despite their belief in their right to conquer all lands, the Dark Elves are haunted by the knowledge that they cannot fully claim their inheritance while their hated brethren, the High Elves, still endure. This bitter rivalry defines much of their motivation and culture.

::
