---
cover: /dragons.webp
description: "Dragons are shapeshifters of unmatched power, they are a reptilian race with massive muscular bodies covered in thick scales. They bare wings, razor sharp claws, and large fangs like swords. They wield potent magic beyond any other being’s capability."
date: 2024-10-22T00:00:00.000Z
layout: article
---

## ::hero

## image: /dragons.webp

# Dragons

Dragons are among the most ancient, intelligent, and powerful creatures in existence. They are both feared and admired, often considered the highest-ranking beings in the world. These nigh-invulnerable and unstoppable avatars of nature serve as pillars of creation, with only five of the highest-ranking dragons known to exist.

## Physical Traits and Forms

Dragons are long-lived and immensely powerful, known for their:

- Physical Strength: Dragons possess great physical power, covered in nearly impenetrable scales everywhere except their undersides.
  Form and Appearance: As spiritual beings, Dragons do not have a fixed appearance. They can assume any form or properties they desire, influenced by their self-image and individuality. Typically, they take the form of massive, lizard-like creatures with horns and scales.
- Dual Forms: Dragons have two primary forms: their natural, winged dragon form, which is more durable and destructive, and a secondary human-like form that is more energy-efficient and better suited for long-term battles.

## Nature and Behavior

Dragons are avatars of nature itself, embodying cunning and subtle intelligence. Their spiritual existence allows them to detach from any physical form they take. While they are renowned for their lust for treasure and excitement, these traits are inherited from the god who created them. Dragons delight in the act of dispossession, preferring to steal treasure rather than simply finding it.

- Treasure and Battle Lust: Young dragons often exhibit an insatiable thirst for battle, a trait that wanes as they mature. Their obsession with gold is unmatched, though the reasons for this are mysterious. Some theories suggest that jewels may act as primal sources of life energy for dragons, or that they have exceptionally slow metabolisms.
- Rage and Destruction: Dragons, especially younger ones, are prone to fits of rage, leading to devastating effects on the land and its inhabitants.

## Immortality and Birth

Dragons, once born, can never truly die. Even if an individual Dragon is killed, another Dragon with the same natural characteristics will be born elsewhere. The newly born Dragon retains the memories of its predecessor, although it may lose some aspects of its personality. Upon rebirth, Dragons inherently understand their existence and role.

## Abilities and Power

Dragons are the ultimate beings in every category, whether it be:

- Physical Strength: Dragons' raw power is unmatched.
- Mana and Magic: They have overwhelming quantities of mana and unparalleled magical abilities.
- Speed and Defense: Their defenses and speed far surpass those of any other creature.
- Innate Powers: Dragons' natural abilities are so superior that they do not require refined techniques. Their spiritual nature also grants them the ability to create stable material bodies by drawing mana and matter from their surroundings. This allows them to resurrect freely, without needing a vessel.

::
