---
cover: /dwarves.webp
description: "Dwarves are short and muscular with tan skin and hazel eyes, they are skilled miners, blacksmiths, and warriors, wielding earth magic alongside war hammers and axes."
date: 2024-10-22T00:00:00.000Z
layout: article
---

## ::hero

## image: /dwarves.webp

# Dwarves

Dwarves, known as Khazad in their own language and by other names such as Casari (their most common name), Naugrim (meaning “Stunted People”), and Gonnhirrim (“Masters of Stone”), are a resilient and tradition-bound race. They are renowned for their strong martial traditions, expert mining, and unparalleled craftsmanship.

Though some may mistakenly compare Dwarves to goblins due to their size, their intelligence, and abilities are beyond question. They are known for their serious demeanor in both battle and craftsmanship, producing high-quality goods that have earned them the respect and friendship of many races across the world. Their undefeated military history also deters others from directly opposing them.

## Physiology

Dwarves are a proud and sturdy race, physically built to endure the dangers of their world:

- Strength and Endurance: They possess great physical strength and remarkable endurance, particularly in their ability to resist extreme heat, cold, and physical burdens.
- Artisanal Skills: Dwarves quickly learn new artisanal skills, especially those related to working with metal and stone.
  Dwarves typically live much longer than humans, often up to 250 years. Dwarven folklore tells of their resemblance to the Seven Fathers of the Dwarves, with many believing that during times of great need, the spirits of these Fathers can return to save their people.
- Height and Weight: Dwarves stand between 1.3 and 1.45 meters tall and weigh between 73 and 100 kilograms, with males being slightly taller and heavier than females.
- Appearance: Dwarves have a range of skin tones, with shield dwarves having pale complexions and gold dwarves possessing tanned or brown skin. Hazel eyes are common, though blue eyes are seen among shield dwarves, and brown or green eyes are found among gold dwarves.
- Longevity: Although Dwarves do not live as long as Elves or Dragons, they age more slowly than humans, reaching adulthood around age 50 and maintaining vitality well past 150 years. Most Dwarves live to see their bicentennial, and a few even surpass 400 years of age.

## Craftsmanship and Skills

Dwarves are master craftsmen and smiths, taught special skills by the god Aulë, one of the Valar. Much of their time is spent crafting, smithing, and mining in their vast underground cities.

- Mining: Dwarves are among the greatest miners to ever exist in Vīlībāzma, carving massive halls beneath mountains where they build their cities. They mine precious minerals such as gold, iron, copper, and silver, although they disdain coal mining as degrading.
- Masonry and Smithing: Their skills as masons and smiths are unparalleled, rivaled only by the Elves in smithing and unmatched in masonry. Dwarves craft objects of great beauty from gems like diamond, emerald, ruby, and sapphire. Their creations include famed weapons, armor, and exquisite art pieces.
  Dwarves are also known for their resourcefulness, able to start fires almost anywhere with minimal materials. However, they seldom farm or herd, preferring to spend their time underground, mining and crafting. They typically trade their masterfully crafted goods with Men and Elves in exchange for food and other necessities.

::
